docs/guides/gaming.md, before:

# Gaming setup
Guide to stream games from the windows VM to my living room TV.

- First stand up the [Windows VM](./vm_windows.md)
- And the [Raspberry Pi](./rpi.md) client for the TV

### Windows streaming server and game platforms
- Install [ViGEmBus](https://github.com/ViGEm/ViGEmBus)
- Install [Playnite](https://playnite.link/)
- Install [ChangeScreenResolution.exe](https://tools.taubenkorb.at/change-screen-resolution/)
- Install [Sunshine](https://docs.lizardbyte.dev/projects/sunshine/en/latest/about/installation.html)
  - Add Playnite as a cmd: `"C:\Users\{{ username }}\AppData\Local\Playnite\Playnite.FullscreenApp.exe" --hidesplashscreen`
  - Run PowerShell cmds:
```PowerShell
cd "C:\Program Files\Sunshine\scripts"
./add-firewall-rule.bat
./install-service.bat
```
- Install [Moonlight](https://github.com/moonlight-stream/moonlight-qt/releases) on Mac, Raspberry Pi
- Install Oculus App
  - Run as admin: `C:\Program Files\Oculus\Support\oculus-runtime\OVRServer_x64.exe`
  - Start the App
  - [Enable mDNS reflection](./pfsense.md)
  - On Quest 2, Settings > System > Link, enable Air link, pair with computer
- Install Yuzu, Ryujinx
  - Download [keys](https://theprodkeys.com/yuzu-encryption-keys-are-missing/) and copy to correct folder location
  - Import into Playnite
- Install Dolphin, import into Playnite

### Raspberry Pi streaming client and controllers
- Enable HEVC, HDR
  - `vim /Volumes/bootfs/config.txt`
```
# may be outdated
dtoverlay=rpivid-v4l2

# dtoverlay=vc4-kms-v3d
dtoverlay=vc4-fkms-v3d

gpu_mem=128
```
- Install Moonlight QT ([notes](https://github.com/moonlight-stream/moonlight-qt/issues/967))
```bash
curl -1sLf 'https://dl.cloudsmith.io/public/moonlight-game-streaming/moonlight-qt/setup.deb.sh' | distro=raspbian codename=buster sudo -E bash
sudo apt install -y moonlight-qt vim less iproute2 git netcat
sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade
sudo vim /etc/systemd/system/moonlight.service
sudo systemctl enable moonlight.service
```
- In the Moonlight GUI, set resolution to 1080p, refresh rate to 60Hz

- Buy Xbox S/X controllers (model [1914](https://boilingsteam.com/xbox-one-controller-a-perfected-xbox-360-gamepad/)) and [dongle](https://www.newegg.com/p/2NG-015J-00004?item=9SIB5YAK5E3117)
- Install [xone](https://github.com/dlundqvist/xone) driver
```bash
# Plugin in dongle
git clone https://github.com/dlundqvist/xone
cd xone
sudo ./install.sh --release
sudo xow-get-firmware.sh --skip-disclaimer
```
- Power on controllers, [pair](https://support.xbox.com/en-US/help/hardware-network/controller/connect-xbox-wireless-controller-to-pc)
  - Put dongle into pairing mode
```bash
echo 1 | sudo tee /sys/bus/usb/drivers/xone-dongle/*/pairing
```

Commit message:

upgrade devtop, other small fixes
Improve how we handle VNC in the devtop VM
Fix / upgrade the nvidia drivers in devtop
Move home location info into the secrets files
Remove broken widgets from the homepage dashboard
Tweak z2m config
Remove hardcoded vm ids from vars.yml

docs/guides/gaming.md, after:

# Gaming setup
Guide to stream games from the windows VM to my living room TV.

- First stand up the [Windows VM](./vm_windows.md)
- And the [Raspberry Pi](./rpi.md) client for the TV

### Windows streaming server and game platforms
- Install [ViGEmBus](https://github.com/ViGEm/ViGEmBus)
- Install [Playnite](https://playnite.link/)
- Install [ChangeScreenResolution.exe](https://tools.taubenkorb.at/change-screen-resolution/)
- Install [Sunshine](https://docs.lizardbyte.dev/projects/sunshine/en/latest/about/installation.html)
  - Add Playnite as a cmd: `"C:\Users\{{ username }}\AppData\Local\Playnite\Playnite.FullscreenApp.exe" --hidesplashscreen`
  - Run PowerShell cmds:
```PowerShell
cd "C:\Program Files\Sunshine\scripts"
./add-firewall-rule.bat
./install-service.bat
```
- Install [Moonlight](https://github.com/moonlight-stream/moonlight-qt/releases) on Mac, Raspberry Pi
- Install Oculus App
  - Run as admin: `C:\Program Files\Oculus\Support\oculus-runtime\OVRServer_x64.exe`
  - Start the App
  - [Enable mDNS reflection](./pfsense.md)
  - On Quest 2, Settings > System > Link, enable Air link, pair with computer
- Install Yuzu, Ryujinx
  - Download [keys](https://theprodkeys.com/yuzu-encryption-keys-are-missing/) and copy to correct folder location
  - Import into Playnite
- Install Dolphin, import into Playnite

### Apple TV client
- Install Moonlight from the App Store
- Tweak the [settings](https://www.reddit.com/r/appletv/comments/nklgcl/any_apple_tv_4k_2021_owners_that_have_tried/)
- Attempt to connect to the gaming VM. Open the Sunshine web UI and enter in the pairing code.
- Pair xbox controller via bluetooth

### Raspberry Pi client
- Enable HEVC, HDR
  - `vim /Volumes/bootfs/config.txt`
```
# may be outdated
dtoverlay=rpivid-v4l2

# dtoverlay=vc4-kms-v3d
dtoverlay=vc4-fkms-v3d

gpu_mem=128
```
- Install Moonlight QT ([notes](https://github.com/moonlight-stream/moonlight-qt/issues/967))
```bash
curl -1sLf 'https://dl.cloudsmith.io/public/moonlight-game-streaming/moonlight-qt/setup.deb.sh' | distro=raspbian codename=buster sudo -E bash
sudo apt install -y moonlight-qt vim less iproute2 git netcat
sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade
sudo vim /etc/systemd/system/moonlight.service
sudo systemctl enable moonlight.service
```
- In the Moonlight GUI, set resolution to 1080p, refresh rate to 60Hz

- Buy Xbox S/X controllers (model [1914](https://boilingsteam.com/xbox-one-controller-a-perfected-xbox-360-gamepad/)) and [dongle](https://www.newegg.com/p/2NG-015J-00004?item=9SIB5YAK5E3117)
- Install [xone](https://github.com/dlundqvist/xone) driver
```bash
# Plugin in dongle
git clone https://github.com/dlundqvist/xone
cd xone
sudo ./install.sh --release
sudo xow-get-firmware.sh --skip-disclaimer
```
- Power on controllers, [pair](https://support.xbox.com/en-US/help/hardware-network/controller/connect-xbox-wireless-controller-to-pc)
  - Put dongle into pairing mode
```bash
echo 1 | sudo tee /sys/bus/usb/drivers/xone-dongle/*/pairing
```
