guides/gaming_setup.md, before:

# Gaming setup

- First stand up the Windows VM: [vm_windows_setup.md](./vm_windows_setup.md)
- And the Raspberry Pi client for the TV: [rpi_setup.md](./rpi_setup.md)

### Windows streaming server and game platforms
- Install [ViGEmBus](https://github.com/ViGEm/ViGEmBus)
- Install [Playnite](https://playnite.link/)
- Install [ChangeScreenResolution.exe](https://tools.taubenkorb.at/change-screen-resolution/)
- Install [Sunshine](https://docs.lizardbyte.dev/projects/sunshine/en/latest/about/installation.html)
  - Add Playnite as a cmd: `"C:\Users\{{ username }}\AppData\Local\Playnite\Playnite.FullscreenApp.exe" --hidesplashscreen`
  - Run PowerShell cmds:
```PowerShell
cd "C:\Program Files\Sunshine\scripts"
./add-firewall-rule.bat
./install-service.bat
```
- Install [Moonlight](https://github.com/moonlight-stream/moonlight-qt/releases) on Mac, Raspberry Pi
- Install Oculus App
  - Run as admin: `C:\Program Files\Oculus\Support\oculus-runtime\OVRServer_x64.exe`
  - Start the App
  - On pfSense, install Avahi service and enable mDNS reflection ([src](https://forums.lawrencesystems.com/t/avahi-with-google-chromecast-on-pfsense/2074/4))
  - On Quest 2, Settings > System > Link, enable Air link, pair with computer
- Install Yuzu, Ryujinx
  - Download [keys](https://theprodkeys.com/yuzu-encryption-keys-are-missing/) and copy to correct folder location
  - Import into Playnite
- Install Dolphin, import into Playnite

### Raspberry Pi streaming client and controllers
- Enable HEVC, HDR
  - `vim /Volumes/bootfs/config.txt`
```
# may be outdated
dtoverlay=rpivid-v4l2

# dtoverlay=vc4-kms-v3d
dtoverlay=vc4-fkms-v3d

gpu_mem=128
```
- Install Moonlight QT ([notes](https://github.com/moonlight-stream/moonlight-qt/issues/967))
```bash
curl -1sLf 'https://dl.cloudsmith.io/public/moonlight-game-streaming/moonlight-qt/setup.deb.sh' | distro=raspbian codename=buster sudo -E bash
sudo apt install -y moonlight-qt vim less iproute2 git netcat
sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade
sudo vim /etc/systemd/system/moonlight.service
sudo systemctl enable moonlight.service
```
- In the Moonlight GUI, set resolution to 1080p, refresh rate to 60Hz

- Buy Xbox S/X controllers (model [1914](https://boilingsteam.com/xbox-one-controller-a-perfected-xbox-360-gamepad/)) and [dongle](https://www.newegg.com/p/2NG-015J-00004?item=9SIB5YAK5E3117)
- Install [xone](https://github.com/medusalix/xone) driver
```bash
# Plugin in dongle
git clone https://github.com/medusalix/xone
cd xone
sudo ./install.sh --release
sudo xow-get-firmware.sh --skip-disclaimer
```
- Power on controllers, [pair](https://support.xbox.com/en-US/help/hardware-network/controller/connect-xbox-wireless-controller-to-pc)

Commit message:

improve docs
Added descriptions for every bash script. Added overview explanations
for each guide.

guides/gaming_setup.md, after:

# Gaming setup
Guide to stream games from the windows VM to my living room TV.

- First stand up the Windows VM: [vm_windows_setup.md](./vm_windows_setup.md)
- And the Raspberry Pi client for the TV: [rpi_setup.md](./rpi_setup.md)

### Windows streaming server and game platforms
- Install [ViGEmBus](https://github.com/ViGEm/ViGEmBus)
- Install [Playnite](https://playnite.link/)
- Install [ChangeScreenResolution.exe](https://tools.taubenkorb.at/change-screen-resolution/)
- Install [Sunshine](https://docs.lizardbyte.dev/projects/sunshine/en/latest/about/installation.html)
  - Add Playnite as a cmd: `"C:\Users\{{ username }}\AppData\Local\Playnite\Playnite.FullscreenApp.exe" --hidesplashscreen`
  - Run PowerShell cmds:
```PowerShell
cd "C:\Program Files\Sunshine\scripts"
./add-firewall-rule.bat
./install-service.bat
```
- Install [Moonlight](https://github.com/moonlight-stream/moonlight-qt/releases) on Mac, Raspberry Pi
- Install Oculus App
  - Run as admin: `C:\Program Files\Oculus\Support\oculus-runtime\OVRServer_x64.exe`
  - Start the App
  - On pfSense, install Avahi service and enable mDNS reflection ([src](https://forums.lawrencesystems.com/t/avahi-with-google-chromecast-on-pfsense/2074/4))
  - On Quest 2, Settings > System > Link, enable Air link, pair with computer
- Install Yuzu, Ryujinx
  - Download [keys](https://theprodkeys.com/yuzu-encryption-keys-are-missing/) and copy to correct folder location
  - Import into Playnite
- Install Dolphin, import into Playnite

### Raspberry Pi streaming client and controllers
- Enable HEVC, HDR
  - `vim /Volumes/bootfs/config.txt`
```
# may be outdated
dtoverlay=rpivid-v4l2

# dtoverlay=vc4-kms-v3d
dtoverlay=vc4-fkms-v3d

gpu_mem=128
```
- Install Moonlight QT ([notes](https://github.com/moonlight-stream/moonlight-qt/issues/967))
```bash
curl -1sLf 'https://dl.cloudsmith.io/public/moonlight-game-streaming/moonlight-qt/setup.deb.sh' | distro=raspbian codename=buster sudo -E bash
sudo apt install -y moonlight-qt vim less iproute2 git netcat
sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade
sudo vim /etc/systemd/system/moonlight.service
sudo systemctl enable moonlight.service
```
- In the Moonlight GUI, set resolution to 1080p, refresh rate to 60Hz

- Buy Xbox S/X controllers (model [1914](https://boilingsteam.com/xbox-one-controller-a-perfected-xbox-360-gamepad/)) and [dongle](https://www.newegg.com/p/2NG-015J-00004?item=9SIB5YAK5E3117)
- Install [xone](https://github.com/medusalix/xone) driver
```bash
# Plugin in dongle
git clone https://github.com/medusalix/xone
cd xone
sudo ./install.sh --release
sudo xow-get-firmware.sh --skip-disclaimer
```
- Power on controllers, [pair](https://support.xbox.com/en-US/help/hardware-network/controller/connect-xbox-wireless-controller-to-pc)
