guides/secure_services_setup.md, before:

# Secure Services setup

- Setup Podman using [podman_setup.md](./podman_setup.md)

## Setup containers
- Install and start services
```bash
sudo su
cd /root/homelab-rendered
src/secsvcs/install_svcs.sh postgres
src/secsvcs/install_svcs.sh lldap
src/secsvcs/install_svcs.sh authelia
src/secsvcs/install_svcs.sh traefik
src/secsvcs/install_svcs.sh victoriametrics
src/secsvcs/install_svcs.sh victorialogs
src/secsvcs/install_svcs.sh gatus
src/secsvcs/install_svcs.sh pve_exporter
src/secsvcs/install_svcs.sh alertmanager
src/secsvcs/install_svcs.sh vmalert
src/secsvcs/install_svcs.sh grafana
# src/secsvcs/install_svcs.sh vault
src/secsvcs/install_svcs.sh fluentbit

systemctl restart node_exporter
```

## Networking
- Enable LAN access to postgres, lldap and authelia
```bash
NET_IFACE=$(podman network inspect systemd-net | jq -r '.[0].network_interface')
ufw allow in from {{ websvcs.ip }} to any port 5432,6360,9091 proto tcp
ufw route allow in on {{ secsvcs.interface }} out on $NET_IFACE to any port 5432,6360,9091 proto tcp
```

- Confirm that the logs for traefik, authelia and lldap look good 
```bash
# Check service status, logs
systemctl status authelia
journalctl -eu authelia
```

- Setup LLDAP
  - In the traefik dynamic config, comment out the authelia middleware from the lldap service (line 33)
    `vim /etc/opt/traefik/config/dynamic/traefik.yml`
  - Navigate to `ldap.{{ site.url }}` and login
    User = admin, get the password below
    `age -d -i /etc/opt/secrets/id_ed25519 /etc/opt/secrets/secrets.yaml.age | yq ".lldap_admin_password"`
  - Add some users, add them to the `lldap_password_manager` group
  - Create the `authelia_gen_access` group, add users to it
  - Add `gatus` user, create `uptime_robot` group, add `gatus` to it
  - Uncomment out the authelia middleware
    `vim /etc/opt/traefik/config/dynamic/traefik.yml`

- Confirm that authelia is working

## Debugging (optional)
- Find container image name
  - `podman search traefik --limit 10`

- Check unit generation
```bash
/usr/lib/systemd/system-generators/podman-system-generator
ls /run/systemd/generator/
```

- Confirm generator ran successfully
  - `journalctl -e`

- Write podman unit files
  - Generate unit files from compose examples, [src](https://github.com/k9withabone/podlet/tree/main#usage), [ref](https://docs.podman.io/en/latest/markdown/podman-systemd.unit.5.html)
```bash
curl -L --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cargo-bins/cargo-binstall/main/install-from-binstall-release.sh | bash
mkdir -p ~/.cargo/bin
cargo-binstall podlet
vim docker_compose.yml
podlet compose docker_compose.yml > all_services.unit

# Flesh out unit files with volumes, secrets and network
vim all_services.unit
```

- List services and status
  - `systemctl --type=service`

Commit message:

improve docs
Added descriptions for every bash script. Added overview explanations
for each guide.

guides/secure_services_setup.md, after:

# Secure Services setup
Guide to setup secsvcs on PVE1. Includes service installation and network configuration.

- Setup Podman using [podman_setup.md](./podman_setup.md)

## Setup containers
- Install and start services
```bash
sudo su
cd /root/homelab-rendered
src/secsvcs/install_svcs.sh postgres
src/secsvcs/install_svcs.sh lldap
src/secsvcs/install_svcs.sh authelia
src/secsvcs/install_svcs.sh traefik
src/secsvcs/install_svcs.sh victoriametrics
src/secsvcs/install_svcs.sh victorialogs
src/secsvcs/install_svcs.sh gatus
src/secsvcs/install_svcs.sh pve_exporter
src/secsvcs/install_svcs.sh alertmanager
src/secsvcs/install_svcs.sh vmalert
src/secsvcs/install_svcs.sh grafana
# src/secsvcs/install_svcs.sh vault
src/secsvcs/install_svcs.sh fluentbit

systemctl restart node_exporter
```

## Networking
- Enable LAN access to postgres, lldap and authelia
```bash
NET_IFACE=$(podman network inspect systemd-net | jq -r '.[0].network_interface')
ufw allow in from {{ websvcs.ip }} to any port 5432,6360,9091 proto tcp
ufw route allow in on {{ secsvcs.interface }} out on $NET_IFACE to any port 5432,6360,9091 proto tcp
```

- Confirm that the logs for traefik, authelia and lldap look good 
```bash
# Check service status, logs
systemctl status authelia
journalctl -eu authelia
```

- Setup LLDAP
  - In the traefik dynamic config, comment out the authelia middleware from the lldap service (line 33)
    `vim /etc/opt/traefik/config/dynamic/traefik.yml`
  - Navigate to `ldap.{{ site.url }}` and login
    User = admin, get the password below
    `age -d -i /etc/opt/secrets/id_ed25519 /etc/opt/secrets/secrets.yaml.age | yq ".lldap_admin_password"`
  - Add some users, add them to the `lldap_password_manager` group
  - Create the `authelia_gen_access` group, add users to it
  - Add `gatus` user, create `uptime_robot` group, add `gatus` to it
  - Uncomment out the authelia middleware
    `vim /etc/opt/traefik/config/dynamic/traefik.yml`

- Confirm that authelia is working

## Debugging (optional)
- Find container image name
  - `podman search traefik --limit 10`

- Check unit generation
```bash
/usr/lib/systemd/system-generators/podman-system-generator
ls /run/systemd/generator/
```

- Confirm generator ran successfully
  - `journalctl -e`

- Write podman unit files
  - Generate unit files from compose examples, [src](https://github.com/k9withabone/podlet/tree/main#usage), [ref](https://docs.podman.io/en/latest/markdown/podman-systemd.unit.5.html)
```bash
curl -L --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cargo-bins/cargo-binstall/main/install-from-binstall-release.sh | bash
mkdir -p ~/.cargo/bin
cargo-binstall podlet
vim docker_compose.yml
podlet compose docker_compose.yml > all_services.unit

# Flesh out unit files with volumes, secrets and network
vim all_services.unit
```

- List services and status
  - `systemctl --type=service`
